[Tomoyo] It's morning,
Okazaki. Wake up.
[Tomoya grumbles]
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Tomoya] What are you...
doing here?
[Tomoyo] What do you think?
I'm here to wake you up,
of course.
[Tomoya] Where's my dad?
[Tomoyo] I'm not sure.
He wasn't here when I showed up.
[Tomoya] Hm...
[Tomoyo] Hm?
Sorry, you ended up
making me breakfast.
I'm sure it was a pain.
I'm the one who should be sorry.
If I'd been more careful,
then you wouldn't be in
trouble right now.
Don't say that.
I know it was your choice,
but I should have
been suspended, not you.
Honestly, I'm still
torn up about all this.
I appreciate what you did,
but I can't help but feel
like I should go to the office
and tell them the truth.
[Tomoya] That's the last
thing you should do.
Like I said, no matter
what else happens,
you have to be elected
student council president.
For the Drama Club, right?
But still, even if I-wha...?
[Light thud]
[Naoyuki] Oh, what have we here?
[Tomoyo] Oh, good morning, sir!
Why don't you sit down and
have breakfast with us?
That would be nice.
We haven't had a real
breakfast like this
in a quite a while.
Thank you very much.
Here, I'll sit down
next to Tomoya.
Thanks for the food.
It was good.
Okazaki, wait. What's wrong?
[Youhei snoring]
[Youhei, mumbling] You punks...
[Tomoya] Sunohara, wake up!
[Youhei] Whaddya want?
It's too early.
[Tomoya] A girl's here to
confess her love to you.
Are you for real?!
WA-HOO!
BLAST OFF!
[Rugby jock] Hey! What the
hell is that on your head?
[Youhei] Huh?! What?!
[Tomoya] The Rugby Club?
[Rugby jock] What?
Are you a panty thief?
Wait, those are boxers!
You freakin' pervert!
[Loud fighting sounds]
[Youhei screams]
Chance can be a scary thing.
So, is that your idea of fun?
[Tomoya] Pretty much.
[Youhei growls]
Well, if nothing else,
at least it woke you up.
Woke me up?! Are you kidding?!
That guy knocked me out!
Anyway, I'm about to
head off to school.
You gonna stay here all day?
Yeah, say hi to Kyou
and the others for me.
[Ryou] I see. So he took
the blame for Sakagami
and was suspended.
Tomoyaaa, why can't you
take care of yourself?
Do you think Tomoya
will be okay?
I mean, will he still be able
to graduate after all this?
I don't know, but
I'm really worried.
The club leader is absent
and Tomoya's suspended.
At this rate, how are we
supposed to be in the
School Festival?
[Tomoya sighs]
[Tomoya] It's already
been three days already.
Why is she the only
thing I can think about?
[Knocks at the door]
[Tomoya gasp]
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Kyou] Hi there!
Have you been lonely without us?
I heard about what happened.
It's a real shame.
I wasn't expecting you guys.
What does that mean?
Who were you expecting?
[Tomoya] Oh, no one really.
[Kyou] You're under suspension.
Can you really go out like this?
Aren't you suppose
to be staying at home?
You say that, and yet,
you were the one who
invited me in the first place.
By the way, Kyou,
where are we going?
That's a...
good question.
[Tomoya] Wow. This
thing's pretty cool.
[Kyou] Well, if nothing
else, Ryou can get her
fortune-telling fix.
Here, now you enter your name.
Okay.
[Ryou] Um... how do I...?
[Tomoya chuckles]
Use this thing right here.
Ah, right!
[Tomoya] Wait, that's
the symbol for male.
[Ryou] Aah...
[Tomoya & Kyou] Oh!
Ah, what's our relationship?
[Tomoya] Hm, well, let's see.
[Ryou] U-um...
[Kyou] Come on, hurry it up!
[Ryou] Kyou, what are you-?!
It says you're
suppose to put your
hands together when you play.
Sorry about this.
[Tomoya] It's alright.
I don't mind.
Okay, there.
C-come on! What's
wrong with you?!
[Tomoya] Whoa! Hold on!
Damn it, Kyou! That hurt!
[Kyou] O-oh yeah?!
Well, that's what you
get for ruining the mood!
You're supposed to pick
"lover" not "friend",
otherwise it's not any fun!
Everyone knows that!
[Kyou] "A kind female and
a male with a strong sense
of responsibility.
You will be very compatible
friends. However,
whether it develops beyond this
is up to each individual."
Can't get anymore generic
than that, can you?
Aren't all fortunes like that?
What'd you expect?
[Ryou] But still,
I'm glad it didn't say
we were totally incompatible.
[Ryou] Hey, Kyou?
[Kyou] I have to run an errand,
so I'm leaving.
[Kyou] Tomoya, make sure
Ryou gets home safe.
Hey!
[Tomoya] You're really into
that fortune-telling stuff, huh?
I think girls are genetically
predisposed to be interested
in fortune telling.
Yeah, too bad your
fortune telling is so-
No, I mean...
[Ryou chuckles]
It's okay. I know I'm bad at it.
[Tomoya] Wait, you
know you're bad?
[Ryou] I have to admit,
I'm still a little
disappointed sometimes,
but in the end, I think
it actually works out
better this way.
Why's that?
[Rou] If a prediction is right,
then it's like you
only have one future.
Like that future
has been decided.
But if it's wrong, then
you have an almost infinite
number of possibilities.
And that means that even the
tiniest twist of fate can
change your future.
I want to believe
that I have choices.
That the path I walk has
many different turns,
and many different
roads to follow.
You don't have to come
here on Sundays too.
If I wanna come here on Sundays,
then it's my choice.
Where's my dad?
He went out a little while ago.
I guess you don't get along
with him very well, do you?
I'm sorry, that's none
of my business, is it?
How's the student
council campaign going?
It's almost election day, right?
[Tomoyo] It's going well,
don't worry.
[Doorbell rings]
Morning, Tomoya! We thought you
might appreciate a little snack!
[Boton] Boi, boi!
[Tomoya] Thank you.
I'm sorry, but my sister
insisted on coming.
Oh, yeah, uh, whatever.
[Tomoyo] Okazaki,
what's going on?
[Tomoyo] Oh, visitors?
[Kyou] It's you?!
Tomoya. Oh, hi Kyou, hi Ryou.
It's a lovely morning, isn't it?
No offense, Kotomi,
but what are you doing here?
I thought Tomoya must be hungry
with no one to cook for him.
So, I thought I would stop
by and bring him some lunch.
Why does everyone
look so gloomy now?
[Boton] Poi...
[Tomoya] N-no offense,
but there's no way I
can eat all this food.
Ryou and I got up at
5 AM to prepare this.
You will eat it, now won't you?
Since I'm the reason Okazaki
was suspended, I'm the
only one involved.
It's my duty to take
care of his food.
What do you mean
"only one involved"?
Are you trying to say we
have nothing to do with this?
To be perfectly blunt,
no you don't.
As far as this incident is
concerned, you're all outsiders.
We've known Okazaki
since his junior year.
And are you saying the drama
club doesn't count for anything?
Time and titles don't determine
the strength of someone's
friendship.
[Kyou growls]
N-now come on you guys,
there's no need to
get so riled up.
[Both] It's because you
won't make up your mind!
But that would be even worse.
Fujibayashi, please say
something to these two.
Tomoya...
I want you to eat
my cooking as well!
[Tomoya] Huh?!
[Botan] Poi?!
Kotomi...
Yes, Tomoya?
Yanno, I started
prepping last night,
so I put a lot of work
into cooking all this.
Fuko... has... arrived!
Who the hell are you?
I brought my own home
cooking for you to eat too!
Leave it to me! My food will
make everything better, Okazaki!
[Tomoya] No, seriously, stop!
Of course, I understand
how you must feel,
but unfortuately,
my home cooking is the
only choice for you, Okazaki!
Starfish pastry!
Starfish cupcakes!
Starfish creme puffs!
That's gross.
[Ryou] Okazaki...
please eat my boxed lunch.
I made it just for you.
You won't let my work
go to waste, will you?
Make up your mind, already.
Pick my food or else.
[Botan] Boi, boi...
[Fuko] Mine is the
obvious choice, Okazaki!
[Botan] Poi?
[Fuko] The obvious choice!
[Youhei] Greetings, Captain!
Congratulations
and welcome back!
[Tomoya] Go easy on me, okay?
I ate way too much yesterday
and I feel I'm gonna puke.
Hate to say it, but this is no
time to be sitting on your
ass and complaining.
[Youhei] Tomoyo's in
big trouble right now.
[Tomoya] Huh?!
[Girl] Is this true?
[Boy 1] I don't know,
but I heard she was
[Boy 1] in a gang before
she came here.
[Boy 2] Just the other day,
some punks from another
school came to pick
a fight with her.
[Boy 3] You sure? I thought
they were after Okazaki?
[Boy 2] I wonder...
Shut up! He's standing
right there.
[Boy 2 gasp]
[Youhei] There you have it.
So, what's the plan?
[Tomoya sighs]
Huh? You wanna have a match?
Yeah, and if we lose,
we'll pick up balls for you,
or clean your uniforms,
or whatever you like.
Just wait here a sec.
I'll see what the team thinks.
You think you can clean up her
image with a baseball game?
If playing basketball works,
then why not?
Just trust me on this one.
All right, but I'll warn you.
The most I've ever
done is play catch.
[Tomoya] Don't worry, okay?
We have an ace up our sleeves.
Our buddy Sunohara there,
is an athletic wonder.
Now I'm really worried.
[Captain] Okazaki!
It's a deal.
We only have one condition.
If you guys lose the game,
then Sakagami will have to
join the girls' softball team.
We'll do it.
Tomoyo, all we need is
three outs to take this!
But try to be careful,
'cause if they get a
base hit, we're finished!
Right! I'll give
it my best shot!
C'mon! Gimme a pitch!
Hey! You okay over there?
This is bad.
What the hell do you think
you're doing, Tomoyo?!
Shut up! You're distracting me!
What, are you afraid I might
catch the ball or something?!
Start throwing strikes!
Watch it, guys! Pitcher's wild!
Calm down, Tomoyo.
But Sunohara's bugging me,
and I can't concentrate.
Then try throwing the
ball straight at his
annoying little face,
like you're gonna smash it
and knock his teeth out.
[Tomoyo] Straight at his face?
[Youhei] C'mon! You
couldn't even pitch a tent!
All right, here goes nothing.
I've seen better arms
on a beanbag chair!
[Youhei] Wha- YAAAAHOOOOOO!
Eh, um... strike.
[Youhei yells] Ow!
[Youhei yells]
[Umpire] Strike! You're out!
That felt good!
That's great, Tomoyo! We won!
Huh?
[Boy 1] Did you hear about
what happened with Tomoyo?
She challenged the baseball
team to a game and won!
[Girl 1] Wow, that's
awesome! She's good at
everything, isn't she?
[Girl 2] Look, she's
right over there!
Tomoyo!
[Girl 3] Wow!
[Girls jabber and
cheer excitedly]
Thanks to you, all those
nasty rumors about me have
finally been cleared up.
[Tomoyo] I'm grateful.
[Tomoya] Don't mention it.
I'm just doing it for
the Drama Club, after all.
I still appreciate it though.
Now it looks like my dream
might actually come true.
[Tomoya] What dream?
[Tomoyo] Oh yeah.
Guess I haven't mentioned
it to you yet, huh?
I wanna protect these cherry
trees, no matter what.
[Tomoya] Huh?
[Tomoyo] They're planning
to cut them all down.
Students who know about
it are really sad.
The neighborhood is also
opposed to the plan.
If I become the next
student council president,
then hopefully I can start
a movement to save the
cherry trees.
Wait a sec. Are you telling me
that was the only reason you
transferred to this school?
Mmhmm.
This place holds special
memories for me.
That's why I have to protect it.
Okazaki, what were you
like in the past?
Average, I guess.
I was... a rebel.
Why do we rebel?
Or, if you wanna look
at it the other way,
what is it that stops
people from rebelling?
Hm?
Maybe talent? 'Cause
if you're talented,
it's obvious what you
should do with yourself.
You have a path to follow,
yanno?
[Tomoyo] Good answer.
But what if you can't
find your talent?
Hm...
Maybe... love?
I see. I think that one's
a good answer too.
But in my case, the answer
that I found is family.
For the sake of your family,
you try to restrain yourself.
That might be true for some
people, but what if your
family is the reason you
rebel in the first place?
[Tomoyo] When I say "family",
I-I don't necessarily mean
your real family.
It could be you friends instead.
All that matters is that
you have something like
a family to support you.
Of course, I-I don't expect
everyone to feel the same way.
but this is the answer I've
found for myself, at least.
Growing up, my parents
never seemed to get along.
There wasn't even an ounce
of warmth between them.
There was nothing at all. They
didn't even bother to fight.
Neither of them were to blame.
It's just that as time went on,
little misunderstandings
turned into big grudges,
and before they realized it,
their relationship had
fallen apart.
Back then, I used to
rebel all the time.
I took out my anger
and frustration on
anyone I could find.
I was such a weak person.
But finally, someone
opened my eyes.
It was my little brother.
He was always quiet
and reserved,
but if you got to know him,
he was very kind-hearted.
He was a good kid, but I
was a bad sister to him.
When I think back on it,
I'd never once seen him smile.
Two years ago, my parents
reached their breaking point
and decided to get a divorce.
As a result, my brother
and I were locked in a
bitter custody battle.
I was ready for the
whole ordeal to be over,
so I didn't care either way,
but he was still young and
couldn't deal with it.
He put his foot down and refused
to go with either of them.
It was the first time he
had ever spoken up about
the whole situation.
And then...
[Tomoya] He jumped?
[Tomoyo] Yeah.
He said if my parents were
going to get a divorce,
he would jump off a bridge.
And he did.
To this day, I can't
really say why he did it.
It's not that he wanted
to die or anything.
The truth is, I doubt even HE
understood why he jumped.
But regardless of the reason...
because of what he did,
we were able to become a real
family for the first time.
All the distance that we
had put between each other...
suddenly seemed to disappear.
Fortunately, my brother
survived the incident,
and in the spring, he was
released from the hospital.
That was when we first
walked down this path.
I still remember what
he said that day.
"I want to see the cherry
blossoms every year...
as a family."
Of course... I felt the same
way. And so did my parents.
This town is always changing...
but there are still a lot of
people here who cherish these
cherry trees and don't
want to see them go.
I'm not the only one. And even
if our reasons are different,
our feelings are the same.
No matter how cold and
distant people may become,
on the inside, something warm
and precious always remains.
Something that never changes.
To me, that's what
family is like.
[Kyou] Nagisa, wow!
Welcome back!
Oh, I'm so happy
to see you again!
I'm so glad you're
finally feeling better.
[Nagisa] I'm sorry I
made you all worry.
[Nagisa] Okazaki?
Huh? What-what's up?
Sorry about what happened.
I heard about the big fight,
and how you let yourself
get suspended so Sakagami
could win the election.
I... I don't know how
to make it up to you.
Ah, it's fine. It's not
like I did it just for you.
I did it for everyone
in the Drama Club.
Geez, when you  put it
that way, it's like saying
"You guys really
owe me big time."
Uh! No, I...
Anyway, it's all over now.
But if you want to
take responsibility,
you can go help Tomoyo
in her match today.
[Nagisa] Oh, right!
One-set match. If I win,
then you join the Tennis Club.
It's a deal. Let's do our best.
It'd be hotter if she was
playing another girl.
I'm worried. Do you think
Sakagami will be okay?
I didn't think so many
people would come to watch.
[Ryou gasp]
[Ryou] Okazaki...
Yeah, that's it!
[Tomoya] Yes!
[Nagisa giggles]
Kyou, hold on.
Just... wait until
the match ends.
[Tomoya] You're looking good.
You can take it.
[Tomoyo] Thanks.
[Nagisa] Uhm, Sakagami?
[Youhei] Don't they
switch sides now?
[Nagisa] I brought some water.
[Tomoya] Oh, yeah, right.
Would you like a drink?
Not right now. Thanks, though.
Wait a sec. We've met before,
haven't we?
I'm Nagisa Furukawa.
I'm trying to organize
the Drama Club.
Drama Club?
Oh, I see. So that's how it is.
[Tomoya] Hm?
[Nagisa] Huh?
No, it's nothing.
Here I go.
Huh?!
[ball hits Nagisa]
[Tomoya] Nagisa!
[Boy 1] Ah! What happened?
[Youhei] Nagisa!
[Tennis Capt] Are you okay?!
[Ryou] Nagisa?
Are you all right, Nagisa?!
Yeah, I'm okay.
More importantly, Sakagami
just won a point, right?
Ooow!
That looks bad.
C'mon, the nurse can-
O-Okazaki...?
Let's go see the nurse.
Oh, right. Okay.
[Tomoya] Try to take it slow.
[Nagisa] Right.
Well, it's not like
we didn't know.
[Ryou] Kyou...
[Kyou] Hm?
Kyou, I...
I-I'm sorry.
Thank you, for everything.
No, I...
I'm sorry!
[Kyou & Ryou sobbing]
[Ryou] I'm sorry.
Congratulations on the
revival of the club, Nagisa.
I made plenty of food so we
could all celebrate together.
Thank you so much for
your help, everyone.
I couldn't have done it without
each and every one of you.
[Teacher] So it's just been
you and your dad living
together since you were
really young, you said?
[Tomoya] We're like strangers.
We stopped being
family ages ago.
He still keeps a
smile on his face...
but I know he's all
alone in the world.